welcome to the man of recaps this is the
flash season four
at the end of season three barry allen
went into the speed force to stop it
from destroying the universe and it
seemed like he was gonna be in there for
good with the flash gone it's up to our
back up heroes to defend central city
especially wally west who's now leading
team kid flash
one day though a flying robot samurai
shows up who's more than they can handle
so they figure it's time to do some
science stuff and bring barry allen back
it doesn't seem to work though because
the portal opened up across town and
coming out of it
is naked bearded barry allen
unfortunately his mind is totally warped
he's completely drying these strange
symbols and spouting gibberish cisco
ramone is able to translate it and what
barry's saying
is this house is bitchin that makes no
sense right now but it becomes a running
joke throughout the season you know this
house is
uh bitchin no it's in need of some work
wow this house is uh bitchin no small
this house is bitchin festive
hey this house is [ __ ] and you know
everybody says that no
hard to find anyway samurai captures
iris and with his lady love in danger
barry allen snaps out of it
goes up there a rescuer and the flash is
back but when the portal opened up it
showered everyone on the bus with dark
matter and yes it's created a whole new
series of one-off meta-human villains of
the week
the bus metas to help them face these
new threats team flash needs a harrison
wells and this season is the same grumpy
earth to harry wells from season 2 who
steps right back into his love-hate
relationship with cisco while he west
has been long-distance dating his
daughter jessie wells but long-distance
is hard she dumps him with the
traditional earthdude breakup cube he's
pretty sad about this and with the
flashback they don't need kid flash
anymore so he's going off to find
himself on the legends of tomorrow
for a season speaking of the legends
gorilla grodd is not in the season of
the flash he's over on the legends this
time doing his usual shenanigans and
speaking of long-distance relationships
cisco's still dating gypsy the
interdimensional bounty hunter one night
though it's not gypsy preaching into
cisco's bedroom it's danny trejo here to
kill him yes he is gypsy's father
breacher who shows up sometimes and is
hilarious now what about dr caitlin snow
who left team flash at the end of the
last season she's been dealing with her
killer frost alternate ego who she hulks
out into sometimes in fact killer frost
has her own life going she's joined a
meta-human gang led by amu net the
smiley psycho british girl who has
metal banning powers pretty soon though
kaitlyn's friends convince killer frost
they're her friends too so they
convinced her to drop the gang and
rejoin team flash
and these days she's not really evil
anymore she's more chaotic good now one
of the bus metas is ralph dibny private
investigator who ends up with stretchy
powers
he is constantly joking basically doing
his best jim carrey impression turns out
barry knows ralph he was a cop and till
barry got him kicked off the force for
planting evidence at first barry thinks
he's a real bad guy but turns out he's a
pretty good guy so soon he joins team
flash as the elongated man
which kind of sounds more like a porn
actor than a superhero now remember
barry and iris got engaged last season
and it's time for the wedding but it's
rudely interrupted by their evil nazi
doppelgangers from another earth yes
it's big crossover this season crisis on
earth x and long story short at the end
of it barry and iris do get married
in a joint wedding with oliver and
felicity from arrow but now for the main
plot
turns out to pull in the strings behind
the scenes is this evil professor x
looking guy called the thinker
the team discovers his identity clifford
devoe but when they go to confront him
he's just a nice normal college
professor with a loving supportive wife
turns out though he created a thinking
cap to make him smarter and on the night
of the particle accelerator explosion it
blasted his brain with dark matter
turned him into a super genius but
unfortunately his body is dying that's
why he's got to sit in the creepy sci-fi
wheelchair pretty soon though he tells
bear he's secretly the villain it's like
you can't do anything about it i'm a
million steps ahead of you indeed when
barry goes to his house to find some
evidence of evil doing they catch him on
camera so barry's in big trouble at work
then the thinker captures one of the
bust metas whose telepathic powers let
him
steal his body conveniently this guy's
real hot so good news for devoe's wife
but devoe dumped his original body in
barry allen's apartment and made it look
like he killed him and yeah
barry allen's going to jail of course as
the flash he could break out literally
any time he wants but he's got to stay
there until they prove his innocence
legally he doesn't want to be a fugitive
but the evil warden discovers he's the
flash and has him transferred to the
metahuman wing that damped his powers
he's selling his metahumans on the black
market to
in fact amunet so without his flash
powers barry allen's got to use his
science powers to break out of there he
has to team up with the other bus medics
he's captured so far and together they
escape but that's exactly what devoe
wanted cause now he flies in and takes
all their powers devos switches into a
new body but this one's not as exciting
for his wife she's also having second
thoughts about their evil plan so devoe
starts drugging her with meta-human
ecstasy and this is no longer a healthy
relationship around this time they
realize ralph dibny can use his body
morphing powers to shapeshift into
someone else so at berry's appeal he
rolls into the courtroom looking like
devoe hey i'm still alive obviously
barry didn't kill me so barry's out of
jail so team flash tries to stop devoe
from getting the other bus matters but
he's got like six powers now he's more
than they can handle and one by one he
steals the powers and the bodies of the
remaining bus metas he has to keep
switching bodies because none of them
can handle the deterioration his super
smart brain is causing until finally he
captures the final bus meta ralph dibny
yes ralph's stretchy cells can handle
his super brain and as an added bonus he
can transform
back to his original appearance this
makes his wife super happy but davao has
detached himself from all emotion he
only cares about their evil plan and
around this time she finds out he's been
drugging her so she has to admit her
husband's become an evil sociopath and
walks out on him speaking of breakups
cross-earth long-distance is really
tough for cisco and gypsy and even
though they still love each other they
call it quits things are going great
though with captain joe west and d.a
cecile horton in fact she's pregnant so
papa joe's gonna be a papa again and for
fake science reasons becoming pregnant
has unlocked cecile's latent meta-human
powers
she can read minds now speaking of new
powers one day barry accidentally
transfers his speed into iris she gets
to be the flash for a day though they
put that back real quick and later devoe
uses that guy's powers to take away
killer frost caitlyn's really come to
like her alter ego but nothing they can
do brings her back cisco vibes into
caitlyn's memory and turns out killer
frost's been with her since she
was a kid yes her powers did not come
from the particle accelerator explosion
where did they come from find out next
season meanwhile harry wells is the
brains of team flash but he's always
multiple steps behind the thinker so he
creates his own thinking cap to make him
smarter and it kind of works for a while
but one day he goes too far puts dark
matter into it and it overloads his
brain over the rest of the season he's
slowly losing his intelligence until
finally it's a tearful farewell with
cisco
and he's totally out of it and now devoe
the thinker with all of the buzz meta
powers has his own epic darth vader
rogue one hallway moment his evil master
plan is to launch some satellites into
orbit and use them to take away everyone
on earth's intelligence and rule the
world as the only smart person naturally
he thinks this is a good thing and he's
saving the world he calls it the
enlightenment so now team flash tracks
down his wife who now realizes he's evil
and is ready to help stop him turns out
the key is
a cecil horton's new telepathic powers
with them she's able to send barry into
devoe's mind there he finds the mind of
ralph dibny still alive and if they can
escape he could take his body back but
in here there's a whole army of dubose
and it's exactly like the matrix agent
smith scene as the flash gets dibny out
of there and
yeah they did it the thinkers defeated
ralph's got his body back with devo gone
they're able to stop the enlightenment
but he left one more trap for them he's
sending the satellite crashing into
earth and so the flash has to stop a
falling satellite the only way he knows
how
by running really fast and punching it
in the face but wait what's this time
freezes and reverses someone time
traveled but it wasn't very this time it
was a mystery speedster with purple and
gold lightning who goes up and helps
double punch it boom
satellite exploded and the day is saved
cisco does some science stuff and brings
harry's intelligence back
yes he's a functioning human now but he
doesn't remember all the super genius
stuff he once knew this ordeal though
has given him a much better appreciation
for emotions so he hugs the team goodbye
he's going back to earth too to be with
his daughter joe and cecil have their
baby and as the whole team celebrating
this random new girl comes to the door
wow this house is bitching there it is
she's the one who said it the team
realizes this girl's been randomly
showing up across the season who is she
she is
nora west allen yes barry and iris's
daughter from the future she's the
speedster who time traveled to stop the
satellite but now she's messed up the
course of history and that's where the
flash season 4 comes to an end
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you love
this recap check out the join button and
support the channel as a member